members.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Members
stylesheets: ["https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.20/css/dataTables.bootstrap4.min.css"]
scripts: [
  "https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.20/js/jquery.dataTables.min.js",
  'https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.20/js/dataTables.bootstrap4.min.js',
  "https://apis.google.com/js/api.js",
  "assets/js/members.js",
]
---

## SIGLEX members

SIGLEX maintains a list of its members names, affiliations and research interests.
There are no dues with membership; all that is necessary is an interest in lexical issues.
If you would like to join SIGLEX, please fill out the [SIGLEX registration form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfldnrynfsqwMu_xwI-c8nxajUUeALJd9INhEPcSb8zCD-GBQ/viewform?usp=sf_link).
If you are unable to access the form, contact <siglex-board@googlegroups.com>.

<div id="waiting" class="alert alert-info" >
Please wait while member information is loaded.
</div>
<div>
<table id="members" class="table table-striped table-bordered" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Name</th>
      <th>Affiliation</th>
      <th>Country</th>
      <th>Sections</th>
      <th>Interests</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th><input type="text" placeholder="Search" /></th>
      <th><input type="text" placeholder="Search" /></th>
      <th><input type="text" placeholder="Search" /></th>
      <th><input type="text" placeholder="Search" /></th>
      <th><input type="text" placeholder="Search" /></th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
  </tbody>
</table>
</div>

Commit message:

Adds information about how to be removed from SIGLEX.

members.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Members
stylesheets: ["https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.20/css/dataTables.bootstrap4.min.css"]
scripts: [
  "https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.20/js/jquery.dataTables.min.js",
  'https://cdn.datatables.net/1.10.20/js/dataTables.bootstrap4.min.js',
  "https://apis.google.com/js/api.js",
  "assets/js/members.js",
]
---

## SIGLEX members

SIGLEX maintains a list of its members names, affiliations and research interests.
There are no dues with membership; all that is necessary is an interest in lexical issues.
If you would like to join SIGLEX, please fill out the [SIGLEX registration form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfldnrynfsqwMu_xwI-c8nxajUUeALJd9INhEPcSb8zCD-GBQ/viewform?usp=sf_link).
If you are unable to access the form, contact <siglex-board@googlegroups.com>.
If you would like to have your information removed from SIGLEX, please send a request to  <siglex-board@googlegroups.com> and we will remove you from our records.

<div id="waiting" class="alert alert-info" >
Please wait while member information is loaded.
</div>
<div>
<table id="members" class="table table-striped table-bordered" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Name</th>
      <th>Affiliation</th>
      <th>Country</th>
      <th>Sections</th>
      <th>Interests</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th><input type="text" placeholder="Search" /></th>
      <th><input type="text" placeholder="Search" /></th>
      <th><input type="text" placeholder="Search" /></th>
      <th><input type="text" placeholder="Search" /></th>
      <th><input type="text" placeholder="Search" /></th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
  </tbody>
</table>
</div>
