---
layout: post
categories: [event]
event_name: "The 2nd Global WordNet Conference"
event_url: "http://www.fi.muni.cz/gwc2004/"
event_location: "Brno, Czech Republic"
siglex_endorsed: yes
---

A couple of years ago, the idea of an international meeting of the
Global WordNet Association seemed truly daring and a bit
fantastic. When it happened, two of us recall sitting on the excursion
bus in Mysore, still overwhelmed at the number and quality of the
submissions, the high attendance in the wake of September 11, and the
outstanding local hospitality. Out of the blue, a participant across
the aisle casually offered to “host the next meeting.” Our spontaneous
reaction was giddy laughter and the response that we had not even
started to dream of a repeat.

Here we are exactly two years later, in a very different part of the
world, and it seems like the kind of family meeting that everyone
knows comes around inevitably in well-defined intervals and that is
accepted unquestioningly. We are delighted that work on wordnets is
being carried out in more countries and in an ever increasing number
of languages. We cherish the common goals of developing wordnets,
carrying out research, and building applications in a spirit of
sharing that makes this community so special in a highly competitive
world.  The Program Committee had a difficult job to select 34 oral
and 16 poster presentations. Many people worked hard to make this
conference successful. Our deep gratitude goes to the members of the
Program Committee, local organizers, helpers and sponsors.

November 2003 

Christiane Fellbaum


Proceedings at <https://aclanthology.org/venues/gwc/>



