---
layout: post
categories: [event]
event_name: "DSALT: Distributional Semantics and Linguistic Theory"
event_url: "http://esslli2016.unibz.it/?page_id=256"
event_location: "ESSLLI, Bolzano, Italy"
event_submission_date: "2016-08-19"
siglex_endorsed: yes
---
DSALT: Distributional Semantics and Linguistic Theory

ESSLLI 2016 Workshop

15-19 August 2016, Bolzano, Italy

URL: <http://esslli2016.unibz.it/?page_id=256>

WORKSHOP DESCRIPTION

The DSALT workshop seeks to foster discussion at the intersection of 
distributional semantics and various subfields of theoretical linguistics, 
with the goal of boosting the impact of distributional semantics on 
linguistic research beyond lexical semantic phenomena, as well as 
broadening the empirical basis and theoretical tools used in linguistics. 
We welcome contributions regarding the theoretical interpretation  of 
distributional vector spaces and/or their application to theoretical 
morphology, syntax, semantics, discourse, dialogue, and any other 
subfield of linguistics. Potential topics of interest include, among others:

* distributional semantics and morphology: How do results in the 
distributional semantics-morphology interface impact theoretical accounts 
of morphology? Can distributional models account for inflectional 
morphology? Can they shed light on phenomena like productivity and 
regularity?

* distributional semantics and syntax: How can compositionality at the 
semantic level interact with syntactic structure? Can we go beyond the 
state of the art in accounting for the syntax-semantics interface when it 
interacts with lexical semantics? How can distributional accounts for 
gradable syntactic phenomena, e.g. selectional preferences or argument 
alternations, be integrated into theoretical linguistic accounts?

* distributional semantics and formal semantics: How can distributional 
representations be related to the traditional components of a semantics 
for natural languages, especially reference and truth? Can distributional 
models be integrated with discourse- or dialogue-oriented semantic 
theories like file change semantics or inquisitive semantics?

* distributional semantics and discourse: Distributional semantics has 
shown to be able to model some aspects of discourse coherence at a 
global level (Landauer and Dumais 1997, a.o.); can it also help with other 
discourse-related phenomena, such as the choice of discourse particles, 
nominal and verbal anaphora, or the form of referring expressions as 
discourse unfolds? 

* distributional semantics and dialogue: Distributional semantics has 
traditionally been mostly static, in the sense that it creates a semantic 
representation for a word once and for all. Can it be made dynamic so it 
can help model, for example, phenomena related to Questions Under 
Discussion (QUDs) in dialogue? Can distributional representations help 
predict the relations between utterance units in dialogue?

* distributional semantics and pragmatics: Distributional semantics is 
based on the statistics of language use, and therefore should include 
information related to pragmatics of language. How do distributional 
models relate to such aspects of pragmatics as focus, pragmatic 
presupposition, or conversational implicature?

SUBMISSIONS

We solicit two-page (plus references) abstracts in at most 11pt font. No 
proceedings will be published, so workshop submissions may discuss 
published work (as well as unpublished work). The abstract submission 
deadline is April 7, 2016. Submissions are accepted by email at 
dsalt2016@gmail.com.

IMPORTANT DATES

Deadline for abstract submission: April 7 2016
Author notification: May 15 2016
Workshop dates: August 15-19 2016

INVITED SPEAKERS

Marco Baroni (University of Trento) 
Katrin Erk (University of Texas at Austin)
Aurélie Herbelot (University of Trento) 
Alessandro Lenci (University of Pisa) 
Jason Weston (Facebook)

PROGRAMME COMMITTEE

Nicholas Asher, Marco Baroni, Emily Bender, Robin Cooper, Ann 
Copestake, Katrin Erk, Ed Greffenstette, Aurelie Herbelot, Alessandro 
Lenci, Marco Marelli, Louise McNally, Sebastian Pado, Barbara Partee, 
Laura Rimell, Mark Steedman, Bonnie Webber, Galit Weidman Sassoon, 
Roberto Zamparelli.

ORGANIZERS

Gemma Boleda (University of Trento) 
Denis Paperno (University of Trento)

