---
layout: post
categories: [event]
event_name: "SemEval-2018: International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation"
event_url: "http://alt.qcri.org/semeval2018/"
event_location: "New Orleans, Louisiana, USA"
event_submission_date: "2018-01-08"
host_name: "NAACL 2018"
siglex_endorsed: yes
---
This a call to participate in the shared tasks of SemEval-2018. You can 
access the detailed task descriptions following the links provided on 
the 
SemEval-2018 webpage: <http://alt.qcri.org/semeval2018/index.php?id=tasks>

TASKS:

Affect and Creative Language in Tweets
 * Task 1: Affect in Tweets
 * Task 2: Multilingual Emoji Prediction
 * Task 3: Irony Detection in English Tweets

Coreference
 * Task 4: Character Identification on Multiparty Dialogues
 * Task 5: Counting Events and Participants within Highly 
Ambiguous Data 
covering a very long tail

Information Extraction
 * Task 6: Parsing Time Normalizations
 * Task 7: Semantic Relation Extraction and Classification in 
Scientific 
Papers
 * Task 8: Semantic Extraction from CybersecUrity REports using 
Natural 
Language Processing (SecureNLP)

Lexical Semantics
 * Task 9: Hypernym Discovery
 * Task 10: Capturing Discriminative Attributes

Reading Comprehension and Reasoning
 * Task 11: Machine Comprehension using Commonsense 
Knowledge
 * Task 12: Argument Reasoning Comprehension Task

Trial data, training data, and evaluation scripts are now ready and 
available on 
the CodaLab website for each task. You can download them through 
the direct 
links, when provided, or after registering to participate in the task 
(“Participate” 
tab). The task evaluations will take place in January 2018. For more 
details 
please consult the SemEval-2018 website and the individual task 
pages.

IMPORTANT DATES
* Mon 08 Jan 2018: Evaluation start
* Mon 29 Jan 2018: Evaluation end
* Mon 05 Feb 2018: Results posted
* Mon 26 Feb 2018: System description paper submissions due 
* Mon 05 Mar 2018: Task description paper submissions due 
* Mon 19 Mar 2018: Paper reviews due (for both systems and tasks)
* Mon 02 Apr 2018: Author notifications
* Mon 16 Apr 2018: Camera ready submissions due

CHAIRS

* Marianna Apidianaki, LIMSI, CNRS & University of Pennsylvania
* Saif M. Mohammad, National Research Council Canada
* Jonathan May, ISI, University of Southern California
* Ekaterina Shutova, University of Cambridge
* Steven Bethard, University of Alabama at Birmingham
* Marine Carpuat, University of Maryland

The SemEval discussion group

Please join our discussion group at semeval3@googlegroups.com in 
order to 
receive announcements and participate in discussions.

The SemEval-2018 Website

<http://alt.qcri.org/semeval2018/>

Contact: <semeval-organizers@googlegroups.com>
For questions on a particular task, post them at the *task* mailing list 
or 
contact the task organizers directly. You can find the task mailing list 
from the 
task webpage.

Best regards,

The SemEval-2018 Organizers
