---
layout: post
categories: [event]
event_name: "Joint Workshop on Multiword Expressions and Electronic Lexicons  (MWE-LEX 2020)"
event_url: "http://multiword.sourceforge.net/mwelex2020"
event_location: "<del>Barcelona, Spain</del> Online"
event_submission_date: "2020-09-02"
host_name: "COLING 2020"
host_url: "https://coling2020.org/"
siglex_endorsed: yes
---
Joint Workshop on Multiword Expressions and Electronic Lexicons (MWE-LEX 2020)

COLING (Barcelona, Spain),  December 13th, 2020  
<http://multiword.sourceforge.net/mwelex2020>  
Final call for papers

Organised, sponsored and endorsed by:

SIGLEX, the Special Interest Group on the Lexicon of the ACL
ELEXIS - European Lexicographic Infrastructure

This joint workshop addresses two domains – multiword
expressions and (electronic) lexicons – with partly overlapping
communities and research interests, but divergent practices and
terminologies.
Multiword expressions (MWEs) are word combinations, such as by
and large, hot dog, pay a visit or pull ones leg, which
exhibit lexical, syntactic, semantic, pragmatic or statistical
idiosyncrasies. MWEs encompass closely related linguistic
objects: idioms, compounds, light-verb constructions,
rhetorical figures, institutionalised phrases and collocations.
Because of their unpredictable behavior, notably their non-
compositional semantics, MWEs pose problems in linguistic
modelling (e.g. treebank annotation, grammar engineering), NLP
pipelines (notably when orchestrated with parsing), and
end-user applications (e.g. information extraction). Modelling
and processing of MWEs has been the topic of the MWE
workshop, organised over the past years by the MWE section of
SIGLEX.

Because MWE-hood is a largely lexical phenomenon, appropriately
built electronic MWE lexicons turn out to be quite
important for NLP. Their conception opens up, among others, the
issues of lemmatisation and of standardised
representation of morphological, syntactic and semantic
properties of MWEs. Large standardised multilingual, possibly
interconnected, NLP-oriented MWE lexicons prove indispensable
for NLP tasks such as MWE identification, due to its
critical sensitivity to unseen data. But the development of
such lexicons is challenging and calls for tools which would
leverage, on the one hand, MWEs encoded in pre-existing NLP-
unaware lexicons and, on the other hand, automatic MWE
discovery in large non-annotated corpora.

In order to pave the way towards a better understanding of
these issues, and to foster convergence and scientific
innovation, the MWE and ELEXIS (European Union Horizon 2020
research grant 731015) communities put forward a joint
All papers should be submitted via the workshop START space
<https://www.softconf.com/coling2020/MWE-LEX/>
Please follow the guidelines and use the COLING 2020 style
files available at <https://coling2020.org/pages/submission>.
Please choose the appropriate track (research/shared task) and
for research papers the submission modality (long/short).

PARSEME SHARED TASK 1.2

MWE-LEX 2020 will host edition 1.2 of the PARSEME shared task
on semi-supervised identification of MWEs. This is a
follow-up of editions 1.0 (2017), and 1.1 (2018). Edition 1.2
features (a) improved and extended corpora annotated with
MWEs, (b) complementary unannotated corpora for unsupervised
MWE discovery, and (c) evaluation focusing on unseen
MWEs. Following the synergy with Elexis, our aim is to foster
the development of unsupervised methods for MWE lexicon
induction, which in turn can be used for identification.
Authors may submit system description papers to the shared task
track. Details are available at
<http://multiword.sf.net/sharedtask2020>

IMPORTANT DATES (UPDATED):

All deadlines are at 23:59 UTC-12 (anywhere in the world).
* September 2, 2020: Workshop papers due date (short papers,
long papers, system description papers)
* October 16, 2020: Notification of acceptance
* November 1, 2020: Camera-ready papers due
* December 13, 2020: Workshop colocated with COLING 2020 in
Barcelona

PROGRAM COMMITTEE CHAIRS

Research track, MWE-specific topics:
* Stella Markantonatou, Institute for Language and Speech
Processing, R.C. Athena (Greece)
* Jelena Mitrovic, University of Passau (Germany)



Research track, MWE-LEX topics:
* John McCrae, National University of Ireland Galway (Ireland)
* Carole Tiberius, Dutch Language Institute in Leiden
(Netherlands)

Shared task track:
* Carlos Ramisch, Aix Marseille University (France)
* Ashwini Vaidya, Indian Institute of Technology in Delhi
(India)

PUBLICATION CHAIRS

* Petya Osenova, University of Sofia and Bulgarian Academy of
Sciences (Bulgaria)
* Agata Savary, Université of Tours (France)

CONTACT

For any inquiries regarding the workshop please send an email
to <mwelex2020@gmail.com>.

ANTI-HARASSMENT POLICY

The workshop supports the ACL anti-harassment policy.
