---
layout: post
categories: [event]
event_name: "The International FrameNet Workshop 2020: Towards a Global, Multilingual FrameNet"
event_url: "https://www.globalframenet.org/ifnw2020"
event_location: "Marseilles, France"
event_submission_date: "2020-02-11"
host_name: "LREC 2020"
host_url: "https://lrec2020.lrec-conf.org/en/"
sponsor_name: "ELRA"
---
The International FrameNet Workshop 2020: Towards a Global, 
Multilingual FrameNet, collocated with LREC, in Marseille, France, 
will bring together researchers in Frame Semantics and 
Construction Grammar, two areas which have traditionally been 
interrelated, but which have been developing somewhat 
independently in recent years. It is also addressed at language 
technology researchers working with language resources based 
on Frame Semantics or Construction Grammar. IFNW 2020 
follows from three previous editions, one in 2018, held in Miyazaki, 
Japan, one in 2016, held in Juiz de Fora, Brazil, and one in 2013, 
held in Berkeley, USA.
Important dates
 * Paper Submission: Feb. 21st, 2020 (GMT-12)
 * Author notification: March 13th, 2020
 * Camera-ready papers due: April 2nd, 2020
 * Workshop: May 16th, 2020

Starting from the original FrameNet project (for English) at the 
International Computer Science Institute (ICSI), projects for 
lexical resources based on Frame Semantics have sprouted in 
more than a dozen countries, with major efforts including 
Spanish, Japanese, Swedish, Brazilian Portuguese, Chinese, 
German, French, Korean, Dutch, Latvian, Finnish, and Hebrew, 
and a variety of other languages. Continuing the series of 
International FrameNet Workshops in 2013, 2016, 2017, and 2018, 
this one-day workshop will promote the exchange of ideas, data, techniques, and
software among these projects and their many 
users. We welcome papers discussing the differences and 
similarities between work on Frame Semantics in different 
languages from both theoretical and practical perspectives. The
theoretical papers might include questions such as:
 * What determines which frames are similar (or essentially 
identical) across languages? How can we characterize the 
differences between frames across languages?
 * What can we learn from parallel annotation in general and the 
current TED talk parallel annotation in particular?  How does that 
relate to translation theory and practice?
 * What can we learn from or contribute to other meaning 
representations such as PropBank, AMR, UCCA predicate logic, 
etc.?  How can we integrate frames for general vocabulary with 
those for specialized domains? Are there semantic domains 
where Frame Semantics does not seem applicable?
Practical papers might discuss questions such as:
 * How can we improve collaboration between Frame Semantic 
projects for different languages? Are there methods to design 
databases, create software, do annotation, etc. that will facilitate 
reuse, especially by new projects? What role could/should/do 
machine learning and machine translation play in developing 
FrameNets?
 * What policies regarding public release of data are in place for 
each project?  Should we aim at a common policy?  Should there 
be limitations on the use of FrameNet data? If so, what?  What 
role does/could commercial support play in your work? 
 * What relation is there now or should there be between 
projects which are primarily based on Frame Semantics and those 
primarily based on Construction Grammar? Between Frame 
Semantic projects and those based on other meaning 
representations or aggregations of representations, such as Uby, 
BabelNet, and Framester?

Part of the meeting will be devoted to presentation of oral papers 
and posters. However, given the very different situations of the 
various projects, we will also allow ample time for small group and 
informal discussions, which are often the best way to promote 
mutual understanding and cooperation, and to resolve practical 
questions.
All submissions must follow the LREC formatting guidelines and 
be submitted via the START page. When submitting a paper, 
authors will be asked to provide essential information about 
resources (in a broad sense, i.e. also technologies, standards, 
evaluation kits, etc.) that have been used for the work described 
in the paper or are a new result of your research. Moreover, ELRA 
encourages all LREC authors to share the described LRs (data, 
tools, services, etc.) to enable their reuse and replicability of 
experiments (including evaluations).

Organizing Committee
* Collin Baker, FrameNet, International Computer Science Institute, USA
* Oliver Czulo, Department of Translation Studies, Universität Leipzig, Germany
* Kyoko Ohara, Japanese FrameNet, Keio University, Japan
* Miriam R. L. Petruck, FrameNet, International Computer Science Institute, USA
* Tiago Timponi Torrent, FrameNet Brasil, Federal University of Juiz de Fora, Brazil

Program Committee
* Hans Boas, University of Texas, Austin 
* Dana Dannells, Gothenburg University
* Gerard de Melo, Rutgers University
* Ellen Dodge, Google Inc.
* Jerome Feldman, International Computer Science Institute
* Maucha Gamonal, Leipzig University
* Laurent Gautier, University of Bourgogne
* Normunds Gruzitis, University of Latvia
* Karin Friberg Heppin, Apple Inc.
* Richard Johansson, Gothenburg University
* Dimitrios Kokkinakis, Gothenburg University
* Marie-Claude L Homme, University of Montréal 
* Russell Lee-Goldman, Google Inc. 
* Ely Matos, Federal University of Juiz de Fora . 
* Sebastian Padó, Stuttgart University
* Martha Palmer, University of Colorado
* Michael Roth, Stuttgart University 
* Josef Ruppenhofer, Institute for the German Language, Mannheim 
* Nathan Schneider, Georgetown University
* Simon Varga, Mainz University
* Alexander Ziem, Heinrich-Heine University Düsseldorf
