---
layout: post
categories: [event]
event_name: "STARSEM 2020"
event_url: "https://sites.google.com/view/starsem2020/"
event_location: "Barcelona, Spain"
event_submission_date: "2020-05-20"
host_name: "SIGLEX"
host_url: "https://coling2020.org"
sponsor_name: "SIGLEX"
sponsor_url: "https://coling2020.org"
siglex_endorsed: yes
---
STARSEM 2020: THE NINTH JOINT CONFERENCE ON LEXICAL 
AND 
COMPUTATIONAL SEMANTICS

September 13-14, 2020, Barcelona, Spain 

Co-located with COLING 2020

Submission deadline: May 20

Website: <https://sites.google.com/view/starsem2020/>


FIRST CALL FOR PAPERS

We are pleased to announce that SIGLEX, the ACL Special 
Interest
Group on the Lexicon, is organizing the 9th Joint Conference on 
Lexical
and Computational Semantics: STARSEM 2020. This time 
STARSEM will be
co-located with COLING in Barcelona (Spain), and it will take
place on the 13-14 of September 2020.

STARSEM brings together researchers interested in the semantics 
of
natural languages and its computational modeling. The 
conference
embraces symbolic and probabilistic approaches, and everything 
in
between; theoretical contributions as well as practical 
applications
are welcome. The long-term goal of STARSEM is to provide a 
stable
forum for the growing number of NLP researchers working on all 
aspects
of semantics.

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

- Lexical semantics and word representations
- Compositional semantics and sentence representations
- Statistical, machine learning and deep learning methods for 
semantics
- Multilingual and cross-lingual semantics
- Word sense disambiguation and induction
- Semantic parsing; syntax-semantics interface
- Frame semantics and semantic role labeling
- Textual inference, entailment and question answering
- Formal approaches to semantics
- Extraction of events and causal and temporal relations
- Entity linking; pronouns and coreference
- Discourse, pragmatics, and dialogue
- Machine reading
- Extra-propositional aspects of meaning
- Multiword and idiomatic expressions
- Metaphor, irony, and humour
- Knowledge mining and acquisition
- Common sense reasoning
- Language generation
- Semantics in NLP applications: sentiment analysis, abusive 
language 
detection, summarization, fact-checking, etc.
- Multidisciplinary research on semantics
- Grounding and multimodal semantics
- Human semantic processing
- Semantic annotation, evaluation, and resources
- Ethical aspects and bias in semantic representations

We encourage authors to think about the ethical aspects of their 
work, and to 
address 
and discuss all ethical questions and implications relevant to their 
research.

*SEM values reproducibility and particularly welcomes 
submissions that adhere 
to the 
reproducibility guidelines as specified in: 
<https://folk.idi.ntnu.no/odderik/reproducibility_guidelines_how_to.>
html
<https://folk.idi.ntnu.no/odderik/reproducibility_guidelines.pdf>


IMPORTANT DATES

Paper submission deadline:        May 20, 2020
Notification of acceptance:          June 24, 2020
STARSEM conference:               September 13-14, 2020


ORGANISERS

General Chair: Iryna Gurevych, Technische Universität Darmstadt

Program Chairs: Marianna Apidianaki, University of Helsinki
                          Manaal Faruqui, Google Assistant



SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS

Submissions to STARSEM 2020 must describe unpublished work 
and be
written in English. We solicit both long and short papers.

Long papers describe original research and may consist of up to 
eight
(8) pages of content, plus unlimited pages for references. Final
versions of long papers will be given one additional page of 
content
(up to 9 pages) so that the comments of reviewers can be taken 
into account.

Short papers describe original focused research and may consist 
of up to 
four (4) pages, plus unlimited pages for references. Upon 
acceptance, 
short papers will be given five (5) content pages in the 
proceedings. 
Authors are encouraged to use this additional page to address 
reviewers 
comments in their final versions.

As the reviewing will be double-blind, the paper must not include 
the
authors names and affiliations. Furthermore, self-references that
reveal the authors identity such as: We previously showed (Smith,
1991) ..., must be avoided. Instead, use citations such as: Smith
previously showed (Smith, 1991) .... As for online paper sharing, 
at
STARSEM, we adopt the ACL policy for submission, which can be 
found here:
<https://aclweb.org/adminwiki/index.php?>
title=ACL_Policies_for_Submission,_Review_and_Citation
Papers that do not conform to requirements will be rejected 
without
review. For a paper to be included in the conference proceedings, 
at
least one of the authors must be registered as a participant at the
STARSEM conference.

Submissions to STARSEM should follow the ACL 2020 style, as 
detailed here: 
<https://acl2020.org/calls/papers/#paper-submission-and->
templates

Please note that double submission of papers will need to be 
notified
at submission.

Submission is electronic, using the Softconf START conference 
management 
system. The submission site is now available at: 
<https://www.softconf.com/coling2020/starsem/>