---
layout: post
categories: [event]
event_name: Corpora in Language learning, Translation and Research
event_url: https://conference.unizd.hr/clltr2024/
event_location: Zadar, Croatia
event_submission_date: 2024-05-05
---

The international conference Corpora in Language learning, Translation and Research aims to bring together specialists in the disciplines of corpus linguistics, specialized and literary translation, foreign language teaching, lexicography, LSP and NLP in order to share their insights on using corpora in language and translation education.
Over the past decade, we have witnessed that corpus and concordance have become a main topic in applied linguistics. The availability of multilingual corpora and processing tools provided language researchers with new opportunities for empirical analysis regarding examining and exemplifying language data.
Nevertheless, the application of empirical corpus-based learning is still limited in language and translation education and corpus driven pedagogy remains the tough task to date.
This conference aims to offer a more detailed account regarding corpus approaches in language learning, translating and research.

The conference is organized around three main research topics:
- Data-driven learning (DDL) in foreign language education
- Corpora as resources in specialized and literary translation
- Corpus driven and corpus based linguistic research that contributes to the advent of language corpora in language and translation education.

Papers can also be oriented towards topics like:
- corpora in MT
- corpus driven contrastive analysis
- translator training
- empirical translation research
- corpus design and compilation
- corpus-based translation pedagogy

We invite the submission of abstracts in English until May 5, 2024. Abstracts should be between 600 and 800 words and submitted via CMT (<https://cmt3.research.microsoft.com/CLLTR2024/>). All papers must be original and cannot simultaneously be presented to another journal or conference.

Kind regards, 
- Larisa Grčić (University of Zadar) 
- Marija Brkić Bakarić (University of Rijeka) 